Project: Data Injestion using AWS DMS:

Welcome to the project. So we are going to do a new project in AWS and in this video I am going to give you a quick walkthrough
of the architecture of the project that we are about to do. So as you can see the title of the project,
it’s A-W-S-D-M-S S3 to S3 migration. So we are trying to perform a near real time migration using A-W-S-D-M-S service to S3 bucket
So if you see the diagram on the screen here, there is an RDS Postgres, RDS, which is relational database service
where we have lot of tables. And whenever a change happens in the table like crud, operations update, uh, delete, create, 	
and so on, those operation needs to be replicated into AWS S3 bucket in real time. So it’s near real time.
So RDS data will be moved to S3 in near real time using a migration service called DMS, and we use DMS task to do that.
Apart from that, in this part of the architecture, we have to attach certain IM rules with required permissions. If you see the IAM rule that is attached to our task needs
to be having access to read the data from RDS as well as to write the data into S3 bucket.
And when you are connecting to RDS in your DMS task, using the password of your database in the RDS,
I mean in the DMS task is not advisable. So we make use of Secrets Manager here, which will allow us to connect remotely
to the database in a secured manner. So once we put the data into S3 bucket, half portion of our data project is completed.
Now what happens in the other half? So the data is moved into S3 bucket NFAzoom out and bring this part closer.
Let me do it And yes, yes. So this is the second part of our project. If you observe the yellow color box is one region
that is US East one and the purple color box, if you see that is US West one. These two are AWS resources
regions of two different geographies. So to move data from one S3 bucket in region one to another S3 bucket in region two, we need
to follow a standard and secured way where every time a object is inserted into S3 bucket, that Needs to trigger. And
I mean that needs to send a notification to the SNS topic. Once the data is into SNS topic, I mean the message is into SNS topic, all the subscribers will receive the notification. And one of those is sQSQ. This SQSQ will be getting the notification
of the message sent by SNS for the object received in the S3 bucket. This SNSQ will trigger lambda function, which
will have a code to copy the data from S3 bucket in region one and put it into region two.
This way we move the data between regions between S3 buckets. So in totality, this is what we are going to do.
There are minor details that are involved in these, like, uh, you need to have certain parameter group to perform the
CDC operations on RDS. We will see that And also we need to have some custom policies attached and we need to also write the land code here.
All these will be given in your videos, uh, as a attachments, which you can refer back. So in short, we are moving data from RDS
to S3 bucket in one region, and from one S3 bucket to another S3 bucket in another region. This is our end-to-end A-W-S-D-M-S S3
to S3 migration project is all about. So that’s it, and I will see you in the next video.

